RICHARD: I don't think. since we started this business.
we've had a proper American muscle car in.
That is an unbelievable racket.
You can't beat building someone's car
and being the first person to drive it. It's a great feeling.
Oh. I think I've spoken too soon.
I think that was a misfire.
If you want this. you've either gotta put more in it
and make it work. or call it a day.
After four rollercoaster years
in the classic car restoration business...
That worked. I'm gonna claim I thought of everything.
...it seems I've finally cracked it.
Happy customer. That's a good feeling.
We've dragged our PR department...
You've gotta get your arses over here damn quick.
...into the 21st century.
Our reach on that day was 317.000 people.
And as brand ambassador...
If you happen to have a car in the UK ever...
...I'm leading the charge.
Hey. hey! This is brilliant!
At least that's what I thought...
If you've overpromised... Yeah. ...you can't under-deliver.
...until my mum arrived.
They won't listen to me. They'll listen to me.
And it turns out that. once again. I'm in deep trouble.
I'm gonna have to do something. Something big.
Oh. my God!
I'm still grappling with this conundrum
Hadrian's given me. which is. basically.
we're not making any money.
But we're not gonna make any more money
until we employ more staff. which means spending more money.
It's very confusing.
I'm not playing with this.
I'm thinking about American cars
because following the Malibu restoration we did.
which went rather well.
we have another American vehicle coming in for some work.
And Jamie tells me that. well. the job's great
because it's just bodywork and paint. no mechanical.
which is perfect. Exciting.
Jamie. he's here.
JAMIE: Oh. wow. That's bigger than I thought.
Yeah. yeah. that's a lot of truck. RICH: How you doing?
Very well. Nice to meet you. And you.
Why have you got this? You've got a truck. you pulled in with it.
I just wanted to take it around the shows.
Oh. this is to be shown? Yeah. yeah. yeah.
Okay. it's not there yet. is it? No. no. no!
It's no good taking it like it is.
I don't know where it came from in America.
It came from a good... It was dry.
Yeah. yeah. That's California or somewhere. That's amazing.
So. mechanically. you're happy? Yes.
So it's just body... Body work.
And you want this as a show car? Yes.
So. proper... Proper job.
Look at that tailgate. Gorgeous. isn't it? I'd rather keep the tailgate
to show that it's been a working vehicle. I couldn't agree more.
I quite like the idea of having it lacquered. Yeah.
It'll protect it. I'll matte-lacquer it. You don't want gloss.
So it'll look like this. but it won't deteriorate or rust.
It's frozen in time. It's literally a time machine. Yeah. yeah.
So. originally. you were gonna do this yourself? Yes.
Well. I had a stroke just after I bought it.
So many things are wrong with me now. look.
but. you know. I'm happy enough.
Yeah. well. you got a truck.
I got two! How bad can life be?
Big question. colour for the rest of the truck?
I don't know what colour I wanna have it yet.
Should we look up some colours? Yes. please.
Can we come to a show? Of course. any show.
Exciting. Right. well. if we're good to go... Yes.
Good. Good. We'll take it on. Looking forward to it.
They're not making these things any more.
And it goes on the scrap heap. it's gone. finished.
If I can get another 50 years out of it. 60 years out of it.
when I'm gone. somebody else can have it and look after it.
And that's why I'm doing it.
We'll get it off the trailer for you.
If you can move your big truck. somebody else in Herefordshire can park here. Like. everybody.
'Cause it's massive.
I really like that truck.
I'm also really pleased that Richard decided to leave
the tailgate patinated.
'cause that is the truck's story
there to see. and it's a story of work.
Back in the '50s. when that truck was new.
I suppose our working vehicles were Land Rovers.
Over there. the equivalent is still the pickup.
People love 'em. They drive them
even if they don't need a pickup. 'cause they're cool.
And that. that's one of the originals.
I wanna see that truck at a show.
Rich. as the owner. is gonna love that.
I've said it now. it's gonna happen.
The only problem is. that's a lot of truck.
And currently. Jamie's the only one who can do the bodywork.
prep. and paint.
which points to the big issue that Hadrian's highlighted.
we desperately need more staff.
There is no doubt I need more hands at The Smallest Cog.
So. through Hadrian. he's helped me get a hold of
a human resources consultant.
And I've come to London to meet him. Let's see if I can make a plan.
Thank you.
Wayne. hi. Nice to meet you. Richard. Nice to meet you.
Have a seat. Thank you.
And thanks for agreeing to the meeting. I've booked a corner
in the library. but we can't...
Sorry. that was a mistake. I didn't think that through.
Broadly. what I am is a classic car restoration business. and that's your area.
Yeah. we look after a number of workshops.
Okay. So what bits can you help with?
Have you had a think about what type of roles you're looking for?
Roles-wise. I need another mechanic.
Possibly another two mechanics. Okay.
I need another painter.
But if all of them or some of them can also prepare.
can fabricate. can weld. Okay.
And the guys you have in the workshop... Yeah.
...where did you find them?
In a skip. Okay. We can do this.
We have a real opportunity to share this story with the world
through social media. first and foremost.
So let's tell everybody
that you are looking to recruit new people.
We'll interview them the first time.
And then the second time. we'll bring them in.
That's when you can give 'em a grilling.
Your hardest decision. by the time we get to that final stage.
is which one not to take... Mm-hm. ...not which one to take.
Wow. that's... That's a good line. I like that.
He seems quite human for an HR consultant.
I was surprised because I'm very conscious.
We're talking about people's jobs.
Somebody joins us. it's not a pipe dream.
it's not a game. it's their livelihood.
Depending on how many we employ.
we could be looking at upwards of another 100K in new salaries.
The pressure to win more work just got bigger.
Jamie. Jamie! Oh.
Yeah? Hello.
I've just come off the phone with Rich. owner of the F-100.
Yeah. And. you know. he wanted to get it into a show.
He's found one. When is it?
It's the week after next. and he's booked it into the competition to be judged.
Er. you might wanna come and have a look at this. then.
Right. Is this good or bad? Bad.
I can see an issue. yes.
The door's not the best. to be honest.
'cause it's rotted from the inside out.
Oh. that really has gone. Yeah.
Can we repair that in-house?
The problem we've got is we haven't got the workforce.
Everybody's busy on other stuff. Yeah.
Ooh. Isaac is coming up with a plan.
I'd like to hear the results of this thinking.
Isaac. have you got a minute? Yep.
Erm... Hello.
There are rumours of you having been involved in thinking.
I know. it's the second time.
So. Dan from over there. he can do all of this.
What. Dan from Hadrian's place? HMS. yeah.
I've already called him. He's on his way?
Yeah. This is a whole new thing. I've been presented with problem
and solution. I like it.
We know Dan. we know his work's good.
and it's great that we can bring him in.
But it does kind of highlight that we are a bit
short on skills and staff.
We're gonna have to do something about it.
We've got to bite the bullet.
It's an expensive bullet.
It didn't used to be this complicated.
There are moments when I can't help hankering after simpler times.
Here's a key fact.
it's Friday and I have fish and chips.
It's fish-and-chip Friday.
I'm off to visit Neil at his new workshop at home.
and I'm travelling in this Jaguar.
which is the car that started all this.
He restored this for me years ago. And just like the old days.
I've got a slight favour to ask him while I'm there.
Shop!
Hello. All right. mate. Now. it's Friday.
It is. It's lunchtime.
It is. For old time's sake...
Oh. ...fish-and-chip Friday. There it is.
Really? Wow. But it gets even better.
Not only have I brought you fish and chips for lunch.
but I've brought you a little challenge that you'll just love. Yeah.
Because you... Come and have a look.
You're saying there's no such thing as a free lunch?
That's exactly it. yes.
This is a real treat.
The check strap's gone on this door. so it flies open.
How did you manage to do that? It just sort of broke.
It's a metal one. I think. isn't it? Oh. yeah.
'Cause usually. they're cloth. I'll put your chips inside.
Yeah. And I'll come out and help. They'll be there waiting.
All right. there we go. Ah!
Boys and their toys. what's he done with this?
Right. this is your problem. Check strap's snapped.
It's pulled that piece out. The eye. It's broken.
Yes. it's pulled it out. That's gone bing.
That piece is missing. So what we'll have to do is remake that eye.
Can you do it before fish and chips go cold?
Hopefully. fingers crossed. Right. We don't like cold chips. No.
We'll need a washer. just the right size. Yeah. or two.
And a welder. And a minute. Or two. or three.
Drill's died. Now's not the time to run out.
You'll be glad to know that I'm only £143 an hour.
So... That's good.
But the chips were quite expensive.
I thought they might be.
We can either cut that lug off. weld that to the end.
grind it round. so it's flat. and she'll look just the job.
Stick her back in. job done.
That needs a bit of planning. I feel famished now.
Calorific intake is what's demanded.
Chips. then welding. You'll lose concentration.
It could be dangerous.
Well. sitting here eating fish and chips next to that jab...
Yeah. ...is very familiar.
I remember when you rang me.
and you'd cut it in half. Yeah. I remember that.
I remember. I came back thinking. "Oh. it'll be in paint."
And you'd literally taken the side off it.
but no. it was bugging me. I knew there was something wrong.
I reckon we'd better go and do the check strap.
Yeah. Otherwise. we're gonna want a nap. Yeah.
This is like old times. It really is.
Watching Neil work and being creative
without the pressure of having to do things
within a certain amount of time. it's cottage. but it's lovely.
Might do more fish-and-chip Fridays to sneak out. to escape.
for old time's sake.
Mended by the power of chips.
Ah. just gonna get that in. There.
There we go.
There it is. Right. try that.
It's working. How far does she come out?
Far enough. Look at that. Perfect.
Brilliant. Thanks. Best fish and chips you spent for a while.
I brought you fish and chips. and for pudding. a nice fix.
I thought you meant you got pudding.
I'm gutted now. No. no. that was your pudding.
Mate. thank you very much. Welcome.
Nice to see you. Joy as always. That's it. There you are.
Next time anything drops off. I'll bring fish and chips.
Thank you. Go steady.
I'll see you soon.
Yeah. ta-da.
I'm not gonna go backwards all the way home.
That's it. try not to knock the gate off.
Seeing Neil reminds me why I started this whole venture.
It's all about a love for classic cars. plain and simple.
Must try not to forget that.
If I'm expanding my team. I'll need more work through the door.
So. as brand ambassador. it's my duty to network.
And a brilliant way of networking is going racing.
That's where I'm off today.
My mate. Patrick Blakeney-Edwards.
invited me to a posh track day at Goodwood.
It's been organised by Fiskens.
very high-end dealers in classic race cars. classic cars.
So I can do some ambassadorial work. talking to.
you know. one day. who knows. potential customers?
But Patrick said. "Bring your race kit."
He'll have a couple of cars there and I get some time on track at Goodwood.
Considered by many to be the spiritual home of the classic car.
Goodwood is the perfect place to forge new relationships
and raise the profile of The Smallest Cog.
And today. the who's who of the elite motorsport world
are here.
Morning. chap! PATRICK: Ey up!
Are you gonna be kind?
So we're gonna do it in quite a methodical way
because it's hard on the brain. and you've got a damaged one anyway.
Thank you! So... Yes. I know.
So. today. what I wanna do. which is what he doesn't know.
is have him co-pilot with me at the Silverstone Festival.
So. if at the end of the day.
I feel that he's close enough to my times.
hell. yeah. we're gonna go and do it.
Right. enjoy it while it's this shape.
Joking.
So. Rich. what I really. really want you to try and do on this session
is to focus on preparing the car
on the right part of the circuit for corner entry.
Corner entry's right. you'll go faster through the corner.
You can then start increasing speed. Corner entry it is. Yep.
Ooh. right. that's me away.
Whilst I try to get to grips with the car.
Patrick's team will be recording my track data
to evaluate my improvements.
That's if there are any.
Middle of the road entry. little on the road to the left.
You're a bit too far over to the right.
Too much braking.
You're keeping it a little bit tight. Tight.
Don't destabilise the car.
I want you to focus on where you're turning in.
If you're coming up to a right-hand corner.
you want to be turning in from the extreme left.
Be gentle with it. don't provoke it.
So this is sort of your wife. not your mistress.
Are we about to say driving a racing car
is like making love to a beautiful woman?
Okay. turn it in. get it rotated.
Clip the apex. Squeeze the power. squeeze the power.
Exit middle of the road. and then let the car now drift.
Don't hold it. Good.
This is getting better. Perfect!
It's starting to come together.
and your lap times will be coming down by huge amounts.
Yours is quite sporadic. it's almost like you're on the brake. then off the brake.
Yeah. this is the one that I never quite got right.
It's so intimidating 'cause you're coming into it at... Yeah.
...117 kilometres. 117 kilometres. yeah.
You stay on the brakes for longer.
so you're just able to carry more speed through here.
Yes. another ten kilometres an hour. Yeah.
That obviously. you... This is... This is all right.
We are definitely going in the right direction.
So. it's Saturday morning.
It's my day off. but I've decided to come in.
I need to get this F-100 finished for the show next weekend.
so I haven't got much time.
So I've decided to come in and get ahead of the game.
So. owner of the pickup truck has decided to keep the tailgate as it is.
er. so that'll give it a nice patina look.
And at the moment. I'm the only one that can do this job.
We've got interviews next week. So until then. it's down to me.
You can tell how much the owner of this F-100 loves the car.
And to be honest. I've fallen in love with it. as well.
One of my favourites so far. That's what great about this place. you get to work on some awesome cars
and you don't know what's coming through the door.
And I can't wait to get this pickup as good as I can get it.
I'm gonna get in there now and get it painted.
I don't know where you could buy one from.
Cheers. Gregor. how are you?
Having a good day? Absolutely brilliant.
Thank you for inviting me along. It's my pleasure.
Race helmet off. networking hat on.
Today's organiser is a classic car dealer
who's brought with him a cool £50 million worth of stock.
He also has a contacts book full of serious classic car enthusiasts.
The cars are nothing unless they're being used. Yeah.
These are wonderful pieces of art. but as soon as they fire up
and they're brought to their natural environment.
which is Goodwood. it all makes sense.
I've chatted to people in the business here today.
and the people with them are mates. They've known them 20 years. Yeah.
They have a role to play in that friendship. I run a little restoration business.
and what I want to do is. one day. to feel that. you know.
it. I. us can have a little part in that.
It's not a commercial thing. You will. You want to be part of it. You've started. We wanna be in it.
'cause it's a great place to be. Yeah. exactly.
Can I do a bit more driving? We've got a job to do.
We've got about an hour left. Excellent. Enjoy.
Brilliant. Thanks. All right. guys. nice to see you. See you.
Right. I'm going out on my own to see if I can apply
some of what Patrick's been teaching me about the circuit
and the driving. We shall see.
Brake. Braking too much there still.
Don't feather. don't feather. Just brake.
Brake. Brake like you mean it. sure. but brake.
So. that is fast there.
That's better.
I didn't lift. I braked at the 100-metre board. not before.
and that got me in faster. That is faster.
Right.
Nobody needs to know.
Patrick's gonna laugh at me now. Here we go.
Why?
There was a car behind me.
and I was thinking. "I was faster than you last time through here. Oh!
I haven't braked."
So. the good news. though. is you beat your optimum time
to a 144.1.
So. I did every bit on that one lap better than I did...
Yeah. ...every bit on all the laps before. That's encouraging.
That was genuinely. actually. really great. worth doing.
Patrick is a good teacher. actually. I'm never telling him that. ever.
I think you've probably done enough today.
I'm racing this car at Silverstone. Yeah.
The historic festival. proper major headline meeting.
It's an hour-long race. It's two-driver.
Do you want to have a laugh?
So. we'd be sharing the drive?
I'd bloody love to.
You're in? Mate. Brilliant. Yes. I'll do it.
Well. thank you. That's really kind.
That's huge. That's a big event.
It's a huge shop window. potentially. for the business.
because everybody in the classic car world will be there.
But the bigger the opportunity. the bigger the event.
the bigger the chance for me to make a mess of it.
So. if I'm gonna do it. I am gonna have to up my game...
quite a lot.
Rich is here. He's the owner of the Ford pickup truck.
the one that Jamie's loving doing.
We're in a critical stage. He's painted the cream.
that'll be the top half of it. but it's two-tone.
The bottom half needs to be a different colour.
He was over the other day. apparently. and he saw a car of mine.
a Subaru. and loved the colour.
But it's a metallic blue. and I really...
Metallic will not work against that cream.
It'll just...
So. I'm gonna break out my diplomacy.
Hello. Hello. How are you? Good to see you.
Ooh. yes! Steering wheel.
That's lovely. Now. you were talking about a metallic blue.
Yeah. I've got a worry that a metallic
against a flat in a two-tone isn't gonna look right.
What I've got...
A-ha! If you go metallic against a flat.
it starts to look... I know. yeah.
I can see what you're saying. yeah.
What about this one here?
Actually. yeah.
What about that one? JAMIE: Yeah. that would work.
I've just noticed something. What?
Cream and blue.
You're actually your own truck upside down.
If you stand on your hands now. we can have a look at what
it looks like with cream above and blue below.
We will look up a colour that is like the colour on my Subaru
that you saw. but non-metallic. Right.
And there you are. Fine. I'm quite happy with that.
And then Richard's left us to the interior to design ourselves.
I think leopard skin and fluffy dice.
That's nice. Maybe a chandelier.
At the top. A nice crystal chandelier.
Brilliant. What's wrong with that?
Well. now the colour's chosen. That's good.
But now it is down to us to get it show-ready.
so it's gotta be good.
We had an amazing reaction to the advert.
and we have worked tirelessly to ensure that we've shortlisted
the best candidates for Richard's business.
So. the first one is mechanical?
Yeah. Then we have a painter.
Painter. right.
The guys we're gonna meet today have a range of skills and experiences.
At the end of today. Richard's gonna have some hard decisions to make.
John or Jonathon? John will be fine. John. yeah.
I just hope that I can go in there. I can do my best to impress Richard.
and my experience and everything is just what he's looking for.
and that's what gets me the job.
John. Hello. mate. Pleasure.
I'm Richard. Nice to see ya. Nice to meet ya.
How are you at dealing with customers who insist on having
their lovely old truck painted in a metallic blue.
when you know full well it just won't work?
Do you enjoy that? I try and dissuade them if you think
it's probably not a matching fit. Yeah.
Wayne has done a good job because. well. he whittled them down
to candidates he thought were worth looking at. and they all are.
Everyone I've met. they're good.
What would be your biggest strength in this whole process?
From here to it rolling out. painted. done. dressed. finished?
I'm chuffed just to be shortlisted.
I think there were quite a few applicants. and if I get the job. it'd be a dream come true.
All right. well done.
Thanks very much. I'll speak to you soon. Yeah. great. Cheers. Take care.
I've gotta say. the whole filtering-them-down business worked.
Thank you. So. it's now about deciding which.
Is it two? Is it three?
Ey up! F-100 pickup door? Yes.
Oh. thank God. They're back.
Right. now these were a complete mess. but he's done them.
He's done a fantastic job.
If you remember. there was nothing left at the bottom of the door.
Oh. hello. No. it was completely... That was just lattice.
There was nothing. No.
Where's he pieced it in?
Ooh. that is nice. isn't it? He's very clever.
Ooh. that is satisfying. Good. 'cause that could have got us stuck.
Brilliant. I'll crack on.
Once we get new recruits and bring more skills to the Cog.
the dream is for all our work to be on high-end projects.
Hence. today's little outing.
I'm off to look at a job. It's a car called a Kondor.
It's currently owned by a lady called Kate.
who is the daughter of. and it was the car of.
a guy called Bryan Wingfield.
which. if you're of a motoring persuasion.
is a name that means something. He's a legend.
Closely involved with the legendary Ford GT cars.
three of which crossed the line together
to win the 1966 Le Mans in an epic battle against Ferrari.
There's been movies made about it. It's incredible.
Bryan made this car himself
and he wants to put it back on the road.
I'm a little bit anxious. This is a one-off.
and little old me is gonna go and have a look. Gulp.
Kate. hello.
Kate. Hello.
Nice to see you. How are you? Lovely to meet you. Yeah. good.
Is it in there? It is. it is.
Good. good. I'll dip in and roll the doors up.
Thank you. Let's just get straight to it. Yeah. absolutely.
Can I? Absolutely.
Oh. look at that. That's got presence.
And there was only one of these. this one. There was only one. yeah.
Although. Dad and the guys at Ford
had developed the car and built the car.
the whole thing just didn't get off the ground.
So. let's just use this car
to understand a bit more about your dad... Mm.
...and what level of
talent we're talking about here. Yeah. huge.
I don't think you'll see another Bryan Wingfield.
He could walk past any car and he'd go.
"Rivets aren't right on that. They should be
this many millimetres apart and they're not. They're. like. a millimetre out."
But he'd say it very quietly. It wouldn't be...
He was just so... He wasn't a pretentious man.
He was the founder of the GT40 Owners Club.
He knew every inch of the GT40.
I'm very pleased that you've invited me along.
What would you like us to do? What would you like back?
A finished car. Dad was diagnosed with Alzheimer's 12. 13 years ago.
The intention was. get it finished for him before he passed away.
But. of course. he passed in March last year. and then that was it.
Mark's an engineer. my husband. and he's very.
very good. very. very capable.
But even with Mark having done some bits and pieces with the rear brakes.
he said the nostalgia that's there is.
Bryan was the last one to undo these. and...
Yeah. it's a real physical connection. It takes extra time.
A real physical connection. He's struggling with it. I'm struggling with it.
Totally understand that. So I think. with your blessing.
what I'd love to do... is pull in some people.
I don't think there's any doubt
this needs to be something of a team effort.
Ahead of this immensely deep scuttle.
there isn't an engine under there at the moment?
No. the engine is there. Right.
That's the gearbox. So the mission is.
all of those go in there.
It's basically. Richard. like a big Meccano set.
It is. apart from it's full size. incredibly unique.
and unbelievably precious. Yes. Mm.
That's a heck of a car. It's not just a car that you stand and look at.
it's a car that you stand in the presence of. It has an aura.
But here's my concern right now.
we're at this level as engineers at The Smallest Cog.
Bryan was up here.
He could conceive. design. and build a race car.
I need something to fill in some of this gap.
This is where I look at where we might have shortfalls.
and then I'll fill those gaps in.
What the hell is going on?
No power. There's just nothing at all. Nothing.
Just about to paint the blue on the lower half of the F-100.
I'll have to get it painted today so it gets built tomorrow for the show.
The show is this weekend. and now the booth has decided to have no power.
so I don't know what's going on with it.
Isaac has mentioned this before.
Hopefully. he can fix it. If not...  ...I don't know.
We can't get this booth running.
It's as if there's no gas coming through at all. Right.
Have you tried the little solenoid that way up on the far end? No.
When the compressor has weird issues.
you just turn it on and off again. it works.
So I don't think they've tried this yet. So. if I turn it off...
Is it on now? Nothing at all. It's all gone.
What about now? No. still nothing.
All right. give me two seconds. I'll just have a go at this.
Okay.
What the hell is he doing up there?
Jesus. Anything yet?
There's nothing at all.
Anything now? Yeah. it's on now.
Right. Hopefully. now we should have some heat.
Let's see if it's cutting in. Yeah. I can see flames.
Yeah. it's fixed. Temperature's going up.
What did you do? I just went in the...
You know. the control panels. a few little switches. just reset them all.
Fair play to Isaac. he really helped us out there.
I'm not sure what he did. but he's managed to get it going.
At least it's running again. that's the main thing.
We'll ignore the finer detail.
So. F-100. So far. I've painted all the cream.
Now. we'll put the blue on which the customer picked.
We've had to be so careful masking this.
'cause if there's any gaps in this masking.
the blue's gonna go through and ruin the job.
So. there's only one way to find out.
and that's to get the paint on. So. I'm ready to go.
The best bit is about to happen.
and I'm not missing it. Wait! Wait. wait. wait!
I wanna watch.
Save this bit for me.
Hopefully. the blue hasn't bled through any of this masking.
Right. Oh. I don't wanna watch now. Fingers crossed.
What if it all leaks out? I hope not.
If it's bled through. I'll just leave.
Yeah. And I can scream.
Oh! Oh. that is satisfying.
That is sharp. Are you happy? Yeah.
Well. the thing is. we'd be proud as well to see it at the show.
It's what I've wanted more than anything else.
is cars. trucks. whatever.
that we can all stand behind and go... "We've done this."
That's it. Yeah. Well done.
I say. "Well done."
but it's not exactly done yet. is it?
Nothing like a tight deadline.
This is not the time for anything bad.
DAN: Where do these go. mate? So. they go on the door.
Yeah. This has been reversed into something. innit?
Yes. quite a few times. by the looks.
It's getting very tight now. Okay?
Yeah.
A little more. little more. Yeah.
So. I wanna paint that black now to make the tailgate
stand out a bit more. So. this job just keeps giving.
You've got some anger. haven't you?
Yep. Who were you thinking of then?
Jamie is... He's pushing himself at the moment.
He's feeling the pressure of keeping us afloat commercially.
That looks good. don't it? Hey. I like that.
He said he did a weekend on it. as well.
and he does do that and doesn't mention it.
Oh. that's perfect.
That looks amazing. But it isn't finished.
Yeah.
Well. it was a long night. but I think the lads have cracked it.
Fingers crossed. the owner agrees.
Right. it's time to get our fancy dress on.
You're really excited for this. aren't you?
I haven't seen mine. 'cause obviously...
Neither have I. ...Lewis sorted them.
Where are we gonna get changed?
Erm... In a Portaloo?
Hm.
Don't like the idea of this fancy dress thing. I just think it's unnecessary.
Mm. I think it'll be quite fun.
Give us a shout when you're ready. Yeah.
Mine's very baggy. Mine's a medium.
What the hell has this gotta do with working on cars?
How are you getting on. Isaac? Not great. if I'm honest.
Mentally. quite bad. Oh. this is horrendous.
Shall we do it on three? I don't wanna do it at all.
Ready? Go.
Do you like mine?
Do you think you've been stitched up? Slightly. Nice.
Oh. you look good. mate.
So. plan for the day. owner Richard is arriving soon
and will see the finished car for the first time.
Then it will be judged. and we'll see if the Cog
can win its first-ever prize.
Morning. mate. People are coming to look.
That's good. 'cause then people see his car.
Unless he says. "I hate it. you've ruined it."
That's gonna be quite bad if he doesn't like it.
'Cause he's not seen any of the interior. No. nothing at all.
Whole new interior. Okay. Right. I'm very confident.
So. we've got a lovely cover for it. Yeah.
Hello. sir. how are you? Nice to see you. Good to meet you.
Come. I reckon you need to get the best view.
If you stand here. we'll unveil it for you. Right.
Do you remember what it was like when it came in? Yes. so it was a shed.
Yeah. it was. it was. Right. well. let's open it up. Let's have a look.
Looking good. innit?
You all right?
I'm looking at it. Go and have a look.
It's come together. hasn't it? It has.
That's its history. Yes.
I'm so glad you went for that. Yep.
'Cause that's just a reminder. It was all like that. Yep.
That's after all those years of work.
Get it fired up. Let's have a listen.
Are you ready? Yeah.
Proper. innit?
Real happy. It's good. innit? It does look extraordinary.
Have a seat. Have a go. Let me get in there.
I think he's pleased.
It's good. innit?  Yeah.
All this you've done around here. I'm real pleased with it. Yeah. yeah.
Good. We couldn't be more pleased than that.
It's all we wanna hear. mate. Yeah.
I didn't think Jamie and the team
could put the truck together like this for the show.
What they've done. it's unbelievable.
Inside the cab and everything. it's beautiful.
Look at the paintwork. It's perfect. isn't it?
And you couldn't get a better painter than Jamie. could you?
You can see he got emotional
because he's so proud of the work we've done.
and that's what makes us proud. That's the reaction we wanna see.
That's why we all do this sort of work.
It's not like we're one of those TV shows
doing somebody's car as a surprise. He's a paying customer.
But in this instance. Rich is such a great guy.
he so loves that truck. and we wanted to make him feel special.
And we did that with limited time. limited number of people.
Imagine how much better it could be if we had enough.
Now the big question.
did our pickup truck impress the judges?
Is this the tent for the awards?
This is it. This is it.
We've decided to send Isaac the kid to find out
so he can show off his outfit.
Oh. it's starting. JUDGE: All right. folks.
Hello. I hope you've had a good day today.
The weather's held up really. really well. Judges' favourite.
this goes to the 1968 Ford Galaxy GVS/853F. That's not us.
Well done. sir.
I thought I was gonna have. like. "Thank you for taking part" award.
like the one that they give to everyone.
Okay. pickup. first place goes to the 1959 Ford F-100.
Congratulations.
Brilliant! Hey! Yeah. thank you.
Brilliant. Thanks a lot.
You're welcome. Thank you. There you go.
We won. Congratulations. Thanks for bringing that.
We've won the first Cog award. It's not a Concours Award. but it's a start.
So. first-place pickup.
So. we have to give it straight to the owner now. 'cause it's not ours.
But we'll take custody of it for now.
Basically. we're torturing this Mini.
That is amazing. actually.
If a customer comes to us and asks for help launching something.
boy. do we deliver! CUSTOMER: Can't get much bigger than this.
All I have to do now is finish without boiling the car.
Please make it. Oh. this is agony.
Subtitles by Deluxe